# Heterogeneity
This project aims to map diagnosis heterogeneity in [UK Biobank dataset](https://bbams.ndph.ox.ac.uk/ams/).

## Preliminary information 
### Diagnostic codes
The diagnosis information of individuals are reported in formats of four different sources:
- GP Clinical data (readv2/readv3)
- Self-reported diagnosis (Cancer/Noncancer)
- ICD codes relating inpatients (ICD9/ICD10)
- Self-reported Mental Health Questionnaire (MHQ)

The  (available under name gp_clinical, informations about how to obtain this table can be found in [UBK Primary care Documentation](https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/showcase/docs/primary_care_data.pdf)).

## Steps 1: code_diagnosis/Find_daignostic_codes.m

This code goes through the diseases of interest provided in a file named "Diseases_of_interest.xlsx", and finds all the diagnostic codes and descriptions of theses diseases, including ICD9/10, read v2, MHQ codes. 

 ### Input:
 - **Diseases_of_interest.xlsx**
    The main sheet is the list of diseases of interest, detailed by their exact labels, the organ they are related to, they body system they involve, and the keywords to find the diseases by in the code/description of diagnostic codes.
    Each disease of interest has its own include and exclude criteria to match the exact description of the diagnostic codes, which are detailed in the remaining 8 sheets of the excel file.

### Output: 

- **disease_codes.mat**
    This file contains label, organ, system, codes, and description of the diseases of interest, as searched through diagnostic codes. The exact feilds are:
    - code_icd9/description_icd9 
    - code_icd10/description_icd10
    - code_mhq/description_mhq
    - code_self_v2/description_self
    - dx_labels
    - dx_organ
    - dx_system

## Steps 2: code_diagnosis/Map_icd_read2_read3.m

This file will find a mapping between codes from ICD9/10, and read_v2 and read_v3, and stores read_v2 and read_v3 codes of the diseases of interest.

### Input:

- **disease_codes.mat**, generated during the previsous step.

- **all_lkps_maps_v3.xlsx**: a lookup table detailing pair-wise mappings between read_v2, read_v3, ICD9, ICD10, and other codes. This table is available to download ([page 17 of UKB instructions](https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/showcase/auxdata/primarycare_codings.zip)).

### Output:

- **icd_diseaseCode_mapped.mat**
    The generated file contains the following fields:
    - code_self_v2
    - code_icd9
    - code_icd10
    - readv2
    - readv3
    - dx_labels
    - dx_organ
    - dx_organ
    
## Steps 3: code_diagnosis/Identify_subIDs_icd_self.m

This code will identify subject IDs with any one of the diagnoses, mapped by ICD9/ICD10 and self-reports. 

### Input:

- **icd_diseaseCode_mapped.mat**, generated by Map_icd_read2_read3.mat.

- **medical_data.csv**: containing datafields as specified in 'medical condition' ([spreadsheet](https://biobank.ndph.ox.ac.uk/showcase/codown.cgi)).

### Output:

- **icd_diseaseCode_mapped.mat**
    The generated file contains the following fields:
    - code_self_v2
    - code_icd9
    - code_icd10
    - readv2
    - readv3
    - dx_labels
    - dx_organ
    - dx_organ

## Steps 4: code_diagnosis/Identify_subIDs_mhq.m


